Blog post: Open-source LLMs as Agents (#1756)
huggingface/blog: open-source-llms-as-agents.md

---
title: "Open-source LLMs as LangChain Agents" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/131_aws-partnership/aws-partnership-thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: m-ric
- user: Jofthomas
- user: andrewrreed
---
# Introduction

> Large Language Models (LLMs) trained to perform [causal language modeling](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/tasks/language_modeling) can tackle a wide range of tasks, but they often struggle with basic tasks like logic, calculation, and search. The worst scenario is when they perform poorly in a domain, such as math, yet still attempt to handle all the calculations themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Large Language Models (LLMs) trained for [causal language modeling](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/tasks/language_modeling) can tackle a wide range of tasks, but they often struggle with basic tasks like logic, calculation, and search. The worst scenario is when they perform poorly in a domain, such as math, yet still attempt to handle all the calculations themselves.
```

> One approach to overcome this weakness is to embed the LLM into a system where it has the ability to call tools: such a system is called an LLM Agent.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One approach to overcome this weakness is to embed the LLM into a system where it can call tools: such a system is called an LLM Agent.  
```

> The definition of LLM Agents is quite broad: all systems that use LLMs as their engine, and have the possibility to perform actions on their environment based on observations. They can use several iterations of the Perception ⇒ Reflexion ⇒ Action cycle to achieve their task, and are often augmented with planning or knowledge management systems to enhance their performance. You can find a good review of the Agents landscape in [Xi et al., 2023](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07864).

Reviewer 2: this first sentence looks bit wrong. I think it could be worded better to have clear subject-verb structure

Reviewer 3: Is this better now?

"To overcome this weakness, amongst other approaches, one can integrate the LLM into a system where it can call tools: such a system is called an LLM Agent. "

> The definition of LLM Agents is quite broad: all systems that use LLMs as their engine, and have the possibility to perform actions on their environment based on observations. They can use several iterations of the Perception ⇒ Reflexion ⇒ Action cycle to achieve their task, and are often augmented with planning or knowledge management systems to enhance their performance. You can find a good review of the Agents landscape in [Xi et al., 2023](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07864).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The definition of LLM Agents is quite broad: LLM agents are all systems that use LLMs as their engine and can perform actions on their environment based on observations. They can use several iterations of the Perception ⇒ Reflexion ⇒ Action cycle to achieve their task and are often augmented with planning or knowledge management systems to enhance their performance. You can find a good review of the Agents landscape in [Xi et al., 2023](https://huggingface.co/papers/2309.07864).
```

> Today, we are focusing on `ReAct agents`. ReAct is the concatenation of two words, “**Reasoning**” and “**Acting**”. In the prompt, we describe the model which tools it can use, and ask it to think “step by step” (also called `Chain-of-thought` behaviour) to plan and execute its next actions in order to reach the final answer. 

Reviewer 2: you can also link the original ReAct & CoT HF papers pages

Reviewer 3: Done! ✅

> Today, we are focusing on `ReAct agents`. ReAct is the concatenation of two words, “**Reasoning**” and “**Acting**”. In the prompt, we describe the model which tools it can use, and ask it to think “step by step” (also called `Chain-of-thought` behaviour) to plan and execute its next actions in order to reach the final answer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, we are focusing on `ReAct agents`. ReAct is the concatenation of two words, "**Reasoning**" and "**Acting**." In the prompt, we describe the model, which tools it can use, and ask it to think “step by step” (also called `Chain-of-thought` behavior) to plan and execute its next actions to reach the final answer. 
```

> ![Sans-titre-2024-01-10-2238.png](%5BDRAFT%5D%20Open-source%20LLMs%20as%20LangChain%20Agents%20632cb4cb4e764465a490eec01a7a6d95/Sans-titre-2024-01-10-2238.png)

Reviewer: maybe host this here: https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images

Reviewer 3: I've created a PR to add the images @merveenoyan : https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/discussions/261#65af9bcada1c18bd6d2a833c

> ![Sans-titre-2024-01-10-2238.png](%5BDRAFT%5D%20Open-source%20LLMs%20as%20LangChain%20Agents%20632cb4cb4e764465a490eec01a7a6d95/Sans-titre-2024-01-10-2238.png)

Reviewer 3: Done!

> This graph seems very high level, but under the hood it’s quite simple: the LLM is called in a loop with a prompt containing in essence:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This graph seems very high-level, but under the hood, it’s quite simple. The LLM is called in a loop with a prompt containing, in essence:
```

```
Here is a question: {question}. 
You have access to these tools: {tools_descriptions}. 
You should first reflect with ‘Thought: {your_thoughts}’, then you either:
- call a tool with the proper JSON formatting,
- or your print your final answer starting with the prefix ‘Final Answer:’
```

Then you parse the LLM’s output:

> - if it contains the string `‘Final Answer:’`, the loop ends and you print the answer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- if it contains the string `‘Final Answer:’`, the loop ends and you print the answer,
```

> - else, the LLM should have output a tool call: you can parse this output to get the tool name and arguments, then call said tool with said arguments. Then the output of this tool call is appended to the prompt, and you call the LLM again with this extended information, until it has enough information to finally provide a final answer to the question.

Reviewer: Maybe giving an example output to above output in both cases would help the reader understand better since you're giving an example

Reviewer 3: @merveenoyan I've added an example below.

Generally, the difficult parts of running an Agent system for the LLM engine is to:

> 1. Choose the right tool calls to really progress towards its goal

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence could be worded better. Kinda hard to understand atm

Reviewer 3: @mishig25 is it better now?

`1. Choose useful tool calls: e.g. when asked `"What is the smallest prime number greater than 30,000?"`, the agent can call the `Search` tool with `"What is he height of K2"` but it won't help.`

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like "From supplied tools, choose the one that will help advance to a desired goal"

> 2. Call tools with a rigorous argument formatting: for instance when trying to calculate the speed of a car that went 3 km in 10 minutes, you have to call tool `Calculator` to divide `distance` by `time` : even if your Calculator tool accepts calls in the JSON format: `{”tool”: “Calculator”, “args”: “3km/10min”}` , there are many pitfalls:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Call tools with rigorous argument formatting. 
For instance, when trying to calculate the speed of a car that went 3 km in 10 minutes, you have to call the tool `Calculator` to divide `distance` by `time`: even if your Calculator tool accepts calls in the JSON format: `{"tool": "Calculator", "args": "3km/10min"}` , there are many pitfalls:
```
the sentence is a little long

    - Misspelling the tool name: `“calculator”` or `“Compute”` wouldn’t work
    - Giving the name of the arguments instead of their values: `“args”: “distance/time”`
    - Non-standardized formatting: `“args": "3km in 10minutes”`

>     - …

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     - …

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - and others
```

3. Efficiently ingesting and using the information gathered in the past observations, be it the initial context or the observations returned after using tool uses.

With that in mind, let us get a low level understanding of how agents are able to use tools! We are going to implement a barebones tool call example with the Transformers library. 

> **[@Joffrey THOMAS ‘s notebook]**

Reviewer 2: is it supposed to be link?

Reviewer 4: yes, this one : https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1j_vsc28FwZEDocDxVxWJ6Fvxd18FK8Gl?usp=sharing
Forgot to change yet

So, how would it look like in a complete Agent setup?

### Running agents with [🦜🔗LangChain](https://www.langchain.com/)

> We’ve just integrated a `ChatHuggingFace` wrapper which will let you create agents based on open-source models in LangChain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’ve just integrated a `ChatHuggingFace` wrapper that lets you create agents based on open-source models in LangChain.
```

The code to create the ChatModel and give it tools is really simple, you can check it all in the [Langchain doc](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/chat/huggingface). 

```python
from langchain_community.llms import HuggingFaceHub
from langchain_community.chat_models.huggingface import ChatHuggingFace

llm = HuggingFaceHub(
    repo_id="HuggingFaceH4/zephyr-7b-beta",
    task="text-generation",
)

chat_model = ChatHuggingFace(llm=llm)
```

> You can make the chat_model into an Agent by giving it a ReAct style prompt and tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can make the `chat_model` into an Agent by giving it a ReAct style prompt and tools:
```

```python
from langchain import hub
from langchain.agents import AgentExecutor, load_tools
from langchain.agents.format_scratchpad import format_log_to_str
from langchain.agents.output_parsers import (
    ReActJsonSingleInputOutputParser,
)
from langchain.tools.render import render_text_description
from langchain_community.utilities import SerpAPIWrapper

# setup tools
tools = load_tools(["serpapi", "llm-math"], llm=llm)

# setup ReAct style prompt
prompt = hub.pull("hwchase17/react-json")
prompt = prompt.partial(
    tools=render_text_description(tools),
    tool_names=", ".join([t.name for t in tools]),
)

# define the agent
chat_model_with_stop = chat_model.bind(stop=["\nObservation"])
agent = (
    {
        "input": lambda x: x["input"],
        "agent_scratchpad": lambda x: format_log_to_str(x["intermediate_steps"]),
    }
    | prompt
    | chat_model_with_stop
    | ReActJsonSingleInputOutputParser()
)

# instantiate AgentExecutor
agent_executor = AgentExecutor(agent=agent, tools=tools, verbose=True)

agent_executor.invoke(
    {
        "input": "Who is the current holder of the speedskating world record? What is her current age raised to the 0.43 power?"
    }

> )

Reviewer: Maybe you can add the output of `agent_executor` here with a code comment or a separate code snippet with bash wrapper

Reviewer 3: Done! 😃

```

> # Agents Showdown: how do different LLMs perform as general purpose reasoning agents?

Reviewer 3: Thank you! I give it a `##` to put it on par with `## Introduction` and `## Running agents with [🦜🔗LangChain]`.

> To understand how open-source LLM’s perform as general purpose reasoning agents, we evaluated four strong models (`Llama2-70b-chat`, `Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1`, `OpenHermes-2.5-Mistral-7B`, `Zephyr-7b-beta`) in a [ReACT workflow](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/tree/021b0484a8d9e8cf0c84bc164fb904202b9e4736/libs/langchain/langchain/agents/react) where they were tasked with answer questions that require basic tool usage. We also evaluated GPT3.5 and GPT4 on the same examples using the [OpenAI specific function calling agent](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/tree/021b0484a8d9e8cf0c84bc164fb904202b9e4736/libs/langchain/langchain/agents/openai_functions_agent) for comparison.

Reviewer: Would be nice to give links to each instead

> To understand how open-source LLM’s perform as general purpose reasoning agents, we evaluated four strong models (`Llama2-70b-chat`, `Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1`, `OpenHermes-2.5-Mistral-7B`, `Zephyr-7b-beta`) in a [ReACT workflow](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/tree/021b0484a8d9e8cf0c84bc164fb904202b9e4736/libs/langchain/langchain/agents/react) where they were tasked with answer questions that require basic tool usage. We also evaluated GPT3.5 and GPT4 on the same examples using the [OpenAI specific function calling agent](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/tree/021b0484a8d9e8cf0c84bc164fb904202b9e4736/libs/langchain/langchain/agents/openai_functions_agent) for comparison.

Reviewer 2: could be nice if you add hf.co/models links to the 4 models

Reviewer 3: Good suggestion, it's done 😃

> To understand how open-source LLM’s perform as general purpose reasoning agents, we evaluated four strong models (`Llama2-70b-chat`, `Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1`, `OpenHermes-2.5-Mistral-7B`, `Zephyr-7b-beta`) in a [ReACT workflow](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/tree/021b0484a8d9e8cf0c84bc164fb904202b9e4736/libs/langchain/langchain/agents/react) where they were tasked with answer questions that require basic tool usage. We also evaluated GPT3.5 and GPT4 on the same examples using the [OpenAI specific function calling agent](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/tree/021b0484a8d9e8cf0c84bc164fb904202b9e4736/libs/langchain/langchain/agents/openai_functions_agent) for comparison.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To understand how open-source LLM’s perform as general purpose reasoning agents, we have evaluated four strong models (`Llama2-70b-chat`, `Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1`, `OpenHermes-2.5-Mistral-7B`, `Zephyr-7b-beta`) in a [ReACT workflow](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/tree/021b0484a8d9e8cf0c84bc164fb904202b9e4736/libs/langchain/langchain/agents/react) where they were tasked with answering questions that require basic tool usage. We have also evaluated GPT3.5 and GPT4 on the same examples using the [OpenAI specific function calling agent](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/tree/021b0484a8d9e8cf0c84bc164fb904202b9e4736/libs/langchain/langchain/agents/openai_functions_agent) for comparison.
```

### Evaluation Dataset

> We selected questions that can be answered using basic tools: a simple calculator and access to internet search.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have selected questions that can be answered using basic tools: a simple calculator and access to internet search.
```

Reviewer 3: Thank you! For my culture, why replace the "selected" with "have selected" for instance?

Reviewer 2: This is definitely a question of style. Please feel free to ignore this suggestion as both options work fine. Having "have selected" rather than "selected" emphasizes the action of selecting (i.e. making the point stronger). But again, it is a very small nuance

Reviewer 3: Thanks a lot! Adding this to my TIL 😃

> - For Internet search capability: we selected questions from [HotpotQA](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hotpot_qa): this is originally a retrieval dataset, but it can be used for general question answering, with access to the internet. Some questions originally need to combine information from various sources: in our setting, this means performing several steps of internet search to combine the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For Internet search capability: we selected questions from [HotpotQA](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hotpot_qa). It is originally a retrieval dataset, but it can be used for general question answering, with access to the internet. Some questions originally need to combine information from various sources, in our setting, this means performing several steps of internet search to combine the results.
```

> - For testing calculator usage, we add questions from [GSM8K](https://huggingface.co/datasets/gsm8k): this dataset tests grade-school math ability, and is entirely solvable by correctly leveraging the 4 operators (add, subtract, multiply, divide).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For testing calculator usage, we added questions from [GSM8K](https://huggingface.co/datasets/gsm8k): this dataset tests grade-school math ability, and is entirely solvable by correctly leveraging the 4 operators (add, subtract, multiply, divide).
```

in the sentences above, past tense is being used. Therefore, for consistency

- We also picked questions from [GAIA](https://huggingface.co/papers/2311.12983), a very difficult benchmark for General AI Assistants. The questions in the original dataset can require many other different tools, such as a code interpreter or pdf reader: we hand-picked questions that do not require anything except search and calculator.

Evaluation was performed with GPT4-as-a-judge using [the prompt format referenced here](https://github.com/A-Roucher/benchmark_agents/blob/master/prompts.py).

### Results

> OpenAI models were evaluated in their own function calling template with which they were fine-tuned. For the other, open-source models, as per the standard LangChain ReAct prompt, we prompt them to output their function calls in this common format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenAI models were evaluated in their function calling template, with which they were fine-tuned. For the other open-source models, as per the standard LangChain ReAct prompt, we prompt them to output their function calls in this common format:
```

> OpenAI models were evaluated in their own function calling template with which they were fine-tuned. For the other, open-source models, as per the standard LangChain ReAct prompt, we prompt them to output their function calls in this common format:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenAI models were evaluated in their own function calling template with which they were fine-tuned. For the open-source models, as per the standard LangChain ReAct prompt, we prompt them to output their function calls in this common format:
```

```python
{{

>   "action": $TOOL_NAME,

Reviewer: Maybe you could actually put a tool example instead of making this sort of an env var

Reviewer 3: Maybe the example below (lines 238-242) can be suficient?

  "action_input": $INPUT
}}
```

> Since these open-source models were not specifically tuned for calling functions in this output format, they are at a slight disadvantage to the OpenAI agents. Despite this, some models perform really well!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since these open-source models were not specifically tuned for calling functions in this output format, they are slightly disadvantaged to the OpenAI agents. Despite this, some models perform well!
```

> Here’s an example of Mixtral-8x7B answering the question:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here’s an example of Mixtral-8x7B answering the question.
```

> “**Which city has a larger population, Guiyang or Tacheng?”**
> 

```python
***Thought:** To answer this question, I need to find the current populations of both Guiyang and Tacheng. I will use the search tool to find this information.

> **Action:**

Reviewer: this is not closed

```json
{
  "action": "search",
  "action_input": "current population of Guiyang"
}
```

> 4.697 million (2016)*

Reviewer: You can wrap this in bash

***Thought:*** *I have obtained the population of Guiyang, which is 4.697 million (as of 2016). Now, I will use the search tool again to find the population of Tacheng.
**Action:**
```json
{
  "action": "search",
  "action_input": "current population of Tacheng"
}
```
Population: Xinjiang: Tacheng data was reported at 1,110.000 Person th in 2021. This records a decrease from the previous number of 1,138.638 Person th for 2020.
Population: Xinjiang: Tacheng data is updated yearly, averaging 1,023.000 Person th from Dec 2005 to 2021, with 17 observations.

I have obtained the population of Tacheng, which is approximately 1.11 million (as of 2021). Comparing the two populations, Guiyang has a larger population than Tacheng.

**Thought:** I now know the final answer
**Final Answer:** Guiyang has a larger population, which is approximately 4.697 million (as of 2016), compared to Tacheng's population of approximately 1.11 million (as of 2021).*
```

Here is a benchmark of the models on our evaluation dataset:

> ### Disclaimer: this image is not final, llama2 and OpenHermes are still to be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Disclaimer: this image is not final, llama2 and OpenHermes are still to be added.**
```

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/m-ric/images/resolve/main/benchmark.png" height="700">

As you can see, some open-source models perform poorly: while this was expected for the small Zephyr-7b, Llama2-70b performs surprisingly poorly.

> But Mixtral-8x7B holds its own really well compared to other models: it has a performance nearly equivalent to GPT3.5. It is the best of the OS models we tested to power Agent workflows! 🏆

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But Mixtral-8x7B holds its own really well compared to other models: it performs nearly equivalent to GPT3.5. It is the best of the OS models we tested to power Agent workflows! 🏆
```
active voice is very readable in technical writing setups

> And this is out-of-the-box performance: contrary to GPT3.5, Mixtral was not finetuned for agent workflows (to our knowledge), which hinders its performance to some extent. For instance on GAIA, 10% of calls fail when Mixtral tries to call a tool with incorrectly formatted arguments. With proper finetuning for the function calling and task planning skills, Mixtral’s score would likely be even higher. We strongly recommend open-source builders to start finetuning Mixtral for agents, with the goal of surpassing the next challenger: GPT4! 🚀

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is out-of-the-box performance: contrary to GPT3.5, Mixtral was not finetuned for agent workflows (to our knowledge), which somewhat hinders its performance. For instance, on GAIA, 10% of calls fail when Mixtral tries to call a tool with incorrectly formatted arguments. With proper finetuning for the function calling and task planning skills, Mixtral’s score would likely be even higher. We strongly recommend open-source builders to start finetuning Mixtral for agents, to surpass the next challenger: GPT4! 🚀
```

---
title: "Open-source LLMs as LangChain Agents" 

> thumbnail: /blog/assets/131_aws-partnership/aws-partnership-thumbnail.png

Reviewer 2: the thumbnail needs to be changed

The LLM is called in a loop with a prompt containing in essence:

```
Here is a question: "{question}" 
You have access to these tools: {tools_descriptions}. 
You should first reflect with ‘Thought: {your_thoughts}’, then you either:
- call a tool with the proper JSON formatting,
- or your print your final answer starting with the prefix ‘Final Answer:’
```

Then you parse the LLM’s output:

- if it contains the string `‘Final Answer:’`, the loop ends and you print the answer,
- else, the LLM should have output a tool call: you can parse this output to get the tool name and arguments, then call said tool with said arguments. Then the output of this tool call is appended to the prompt, and you call the LLM again with this extended information, until it has enough information to finally provide a final answer to the question.

For instance, the LLM's output can look like this, when answering the question: `How many seconds are in 1:23:45?`
```
    Thought: I need to convert the time string into seconds.

    Action:

>     ```json

Author: You're right! I remove the ````json` altogether.
